Good afternoon everyone! I am Venkatesh G Dhongadi from Department of Computer Science.
In the next few minutes, I'll be speaking about the Best Solutions to reduce overtime work.
.
.
Let me first tell you all what is overtime?
Overtime means all the work hours included in excess of normal hours, that is, working hours exceeding 8 hours a day & 48 hours a week.
Speaking of which, can result in lower morale, decreased productivity, tiredness etc.
So what can be done to reduce overitme?
I'll now talk about How to Cut Back on Overtime and at the same time Increase Productivity.

Top Management commitment.
Top management commities can be hired. Appoint a coordinator to manage the project. Setting up a committee, to plan the project deadlines and other things like that can help reduce over time work.

Proper Time management.
Before any company begins working on a project, they must have a proper map of the project, and the modules have to be properly divided among all the employees as per their capabilities, along with proper deadlines. Time is the key for everything. When time is managed properly, there will barely be any chance for the employee to stay back late for completion of his task.

Allowing flexible work schedules.
The best work doesn’t only happen from 9-5. It doesn’t even have to happen in an office. Over half of employees report that if they need to get work done, they would prefer and be more productive doing it from home than at the office.
Research shows over and over that flexible work schedules benefit both employers and employees. Employees with flexible schedules are more productive during the hours they do work and use their time more effectively—reducing the chance of overtime or not getting their work done as scheduled. 


Lead by example.
Employees who see their managers working excessive overtime will naturally think they are expected to do the same. This sets up a pattern of inefficiency, overwork and burnout all-around. Instead, proactively discuss overtime policies and expectations of the employees, and ask managers and supervisors to model good behavior, too. Discourage them from responding to or sending non-critical emails late at night or on weekends, and encourage them to fully unplug during PTO.

Overtime working has been a problem from decades and implementing solutions like i spoke about can help reduce it, and make lives easier & better.

I wana thank you all for listening to me patiently. Have a good day!